---
title: Three Months in Bangalore
tags: [Bangalore]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

Finding a suitable accommodation feels as challenging as locating a needle in a haystack. My journey of searching for an apartment has been accompanied by some unusual queries from landlords and brokers, such as:

- Inquiring about my caste, religion, and gotra (idk why?).
- Asking about my alcohol and smoking habits.
- Wanting to know if I'm married.
- Inquiring about whether I have a “girlfriend” (I have serious issues with this term).
  
These inquiries had certainly made the flat-hunting experience quite unique, to say the least. I didn’t expect this at all. 

But finally I got one flat near my office (4 kms though, have to take bus to reah my office) and I have been staying here now from the part three months. Journey so far was, I would say, **"O.K."**. I have to plan things to smoothen my stay in this city. 
I typically head to the office early at 7:30 AM to beat the traffic. The 4-kilometer commute takes about 20 minutes, not counting the time spent waiting for the bus. If I don't leave early, the journey could take even longer. Although there's no mandatory 8-hour office requirement due to the hybrid work setup, I choose to work from the office and stay until 4:30 PM. I need to figure out how to make the most of my time and keep myself occupied.

I have started reading this book **India that is Bharat** by JSD. I have been listening to his views since my UPSC preperation days and after watching his interview on lallantop I decided to buy his book. His views appear to me quite radical but **आ नो भद्राः क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वतः** because that is how one will challenge his/her confirmation biases.

Guess what... I am going to Delhi on 1st Nov but before that tomorrow I have to give a presentation on this topic which I have been deliberating upon since joining this company: **Quantum Vision Transformers**

